>> Steve Kinney: So we're going to talk
a little bit about some terminology.
As you saw when I did
the drop down before,
Amazon has no shortage of services.
There was a whole bunch I could
put in alphabetical order.
It didn't make you feel any
better about the number of them.
It's increasingly growing, and
it's already overwhelming.
We're only gonna talk about a few,
which is kind of a cheat because the few
that we're gonna talk about
are actually wrappers over many more.
But they kinda fall in
a few different buckets.
But when you have that many things in a
given service, you tend to have ones with
very similar names and the boundaries
between them are a little fuzzy.
So what we'll do is first come
just talk about them each
almost like definitions
of what each one is.
And you'll see there is some overlap and
sometimes you're using
two of them in conjunction to
get a job done, totally cool.
And if at one point you're kind
of confused on the different
boundaries between them,
that's probably normal.
But let's actually just take
a little bit a time to kind of
look at each one of them.
So the three that we're gonna spent
most of our time with today, and again,
I told you that's a lie because they
wrap other ones, is AWS Mobile Hub,
which is targeted as letting mobile
application developers get up and
running really quickly with
industry standard best practices.
Now I would argue that front-end web
developers fall into that same bucket.
I think that there's no difference
between a single page react app and
an iOS application, right?
They are effectively applications that
are installed on the client that talk to
a back end API.
So, what is good for mobile developers,
even my bread and butter today,
we don't a mobile Singrid app.
I'm a desktop JavaScript developer,
but everything that applies for
mobile developers works for
me just as well.
So it doesn't really matter either way.
Amazon, AWS Mobile Hub is an abstraction
over a number of different services.
We're also gonna talk about
AWS Amplify and AWS AppSync.
We'll look at each one
of these individually.
So the first is AWS Mobile Hub.
This is an abstraction for
managing a database service on AWSA,
identity/auth indications/authorization
service on AWS.
It's one for managing S3 buckets.
It's basically a way to kind of
spin up all of these services
with good configurations, configurations
that will get you from user one
to user ten million with a scalable
architecture out of the box.
And what's really cool about some of
this AWS Mobile Hub stuff is that,
while some services might be like
a black box of how they actually work,
you're getting a real DynamoDB,
you're getting a real S3 bucket,
you're getting like weapons
grade CloudFront distributions.
You're getting everything
that we use at Singrid for
building all of our applications.
You're getting it with a command line tool
to initialize, push it up to the web,
everything is kind of configured and
set up for you, which is very, very cool.
And basically what Mobile Hub is,
it's an abstraction over that.
It's got a dashboard that you can look at.
It's got a command line
tool to spin things up.
It's pretty cool.
The command line tool, for
us we're gonna be focusing mostly
on the JavaScript aspect of this.
Mobile Hub kinda targets
four-ish platforms.
It targets Swift/iOS development,
Android development, React Native,
which can kind of be Android and
iOS, and React web development.
All right, so
kind of the four major platforms.
We're gonna be looking at it from the
perspective of just React web developers,
but those are kind of four
platforms that it targets.
And it's basically for, again, spinning
up these back-end services easily.
And so the awsmobile-cli is an npm
module that you install globally.
And it basically gives you
an awsmobile command line tool.
And from there,
you can initialize projects, publish
them to the web, all sorts of stuff.
You can install either.
If you feel like npm,
it's npm install -g awsmobile-cli.
If you're into yarn, yarn add global
awsmobile-ci it's the same code,
it's just how you wanna get
it installed on your system.
AWS Amplify, again, is a JavaScript
library, and it's basically
JavaScript code that you can use to
interact and control AWS services.
And it lets you talk to an S3 storage
layer, it will let you talk to an API,
will let you handle authentication.
It's basically JavaScript bindings for
working with AWS in general and
Mobile Hub in particular.
There's also AWS Amplify React,
which is a bunch of React components
that are also integrated with Amplify.
And there's also,
if you're into React Native,
aws-amplify-react-native which
is react native components for
building native mobile applications.
There's a lot of overlap.
When you initialize a project
with the AWS mobile CLI,
it will automatically install AWS Amplify,
which is the JavaScript library.
And if it senses that it
is a React application,
it will also install AWS Amplify React.
So setting something up as an AWS mobile
project will also get you the Amplify
library, Amplify helps you
talk to AWS mobile hub.
You can already see how some of these
boundaries are beginning to blur
a little bit.
The last one, which we'll talk
about at the end, is AWS AppSync,
which was officially announced in
November along with Amplify and
effectively allows you to
create GraphQL as a service.
So GraphQL is very cool.
Scott Moss has a really great
workshop on setting up a server.
This allows you to actually
spin one up very quickly.
If you want to do more complicated stuff,
then you definitely need
to watch Scott's workshop.
But it allows you to basically say,
hey, I'm gonna have this data,
it's gonna look like this.
It'll actually go ahead behind the scenes.
It will create the DynamoDB databases for
you and set everything up.
It will actually, out of the box,
support real-time push.
If something on the database changes
you can actually subscribe like,
I wanted to know when this model changes.
Hey it changed, and
you can handle it in your code.
And you get that all out of the box for
free.
If you kind of use some of the more, like
heavy weight GraphQL client libraries,
like Apollo, you can actually get
offline first, and caching, and
stuff along those lines as well.
We're just gonna look
at some of the basics.
You can kinda define the schema and
say hey, create me all the DynamoDB
databases that I need in order
to use this GraphQL schema.
Or if you already have
Elastic Search in place and
you wanna use that, or Lambda functions
are basically little snippets of code that
you can execute when stuff happens.
So if you have a custom back-end and you
just want GraphQL, and you want to have
the subscriptions and the notifications
and stuff along those lines, you can
actually write your own lamda functions to
hook on to your existing back-end, right?
So we're gonna use the DynamoDB,
out of the box cuz we don't have a legacy
back-end and
that's not my real idea of fun today.
We'll actually just spin up
the database as we need as
fresh as we go.
>> Steve Kinney: AppSync can be used
with Amplify a Mobile Hub,
it doesn't necessarily need to.
It actually has its own JavaScript library
if you just wanna use it by itself.
So you can kinda mix and
match and integrate any of these.
Amplify is aware of AppSync,
so is Mobile Hub, so
they all kind of blend and
can work together.
But the really cool thing is,
unlike some other services,
let's say for
some reason you want to go really custom,
you can just peel away the abstraction
layer and you have, again,
DynamoDB databases, everything along
those lines and do stuff yourself.
And you're gonna customize and
tweak stuff,
it's not like a black box where you
can't really see what's going on.
Cool.
So again,
let's just kinda review that real quickly.
What does Mobile Hub offer?
Again, it's an abstraction of
a bunch of different services.
It's an abstraction over AWS Cognito,
which is their authentication service,
which handles all sorts
of crazy authorization.
You can put different users in different
groups, and they can say these users have
the right to do this,
these users have the right to do this.
And it can actually work with federated
identities, like Facebook Login or
Google Login.
Really cool, really like,
really easy to set up with Mobile Hub, but
if you need to get a very granular,
it's incredibly powerful as well.
Storage is just a wrapper over
the infamous AWS S3, which is one of
the oldest services that AWS offers as a
way to put files on the internet, as well.
Serverless functions,
which we're also gonna call it cloud API.
Again, Frontend Masters has
a whole course on serverless.
But we can actually spin up API's really
quickly using a combination of AWS Lambda
and API Gateway.
Databases out of the box
will usually be DynamoDB,
which I've mentioned a few times.
It'll also support hosting out of the box,
not just hosting in one location, but
actually globally distributing
your application.
So everywhere people around
the world can access it quickly, and
not just have to travel all the way around
the world, depending on where they are.
Finally, and we're not going to
play too much with this one today,
supports analytics and notifications.
A lot of native mobile platforms
support push notifications.
The web does, but
it's kind of a little more tricky.
But Pinpoint will actually let you track
users' actual moves and different things
that they're doing in the application,
which is fine for regular analytics.
But you can say, I saw you looked at
this product, or this restaurant.
And then you can send them a text
message or something along those lines.
You can actually figure
out really interesting and
unique ways to engage with your users.
That one is only available in us-east-1,
which is one of the reasons that we're
not going to be using it too much today.
Amazon has many, many data centers, and
so a lot of times, not all the time,
some things are global.
But in a few cases, you can host your
code at this one data center, and
that data center may have all of
the Amazon services or a subset of those.
We'll actually define that
as we set everything up.
And so finally, just to kind of review,
we talked a little about AWS Mobile CLI,
just a command line interface for
working with Mobile Hub.
Amplify is at JavaScript library for
using it in your code, and
we're ready to get started.